# AD35 

This repository homes my final project submission for DATA 301, taken at Cal Poly SLO during the 2021 Winter term.

### Introduction & Background

California’s legislative body consists of two chambers: the California Senate and the State Assembly. In the case of the Assembly, the state is divided into 80 districts which each elect an Assembly member, every two years. Like other voting districts, the borders of these assembly districts are periodically redrawn, according to the results of the decennial census. For roughly the last decade, much of the Central Coast of California (including Cal Poly) has belonged to California’s 35th State Assembly district. Since 1970, Democrats have maintained control of the state’s Assembly for all but one two-year session. During the last two legislative terms, Democrats have effectively held a two thirds majority of the Assembly. At this time, there are only 19 Republican assembly members. San Luis Obispo county - the major voting constituency of the district, appears to fit the general mold of California politics. The county has a clear democratic voter registration advantage, and in every election since 2010 has voted for a Democrat at the topmost ballot race. But to the intrigue of many, the 35th district has elected or returned a Republican member, without fail, for more than a decade. 

The goal of this project was to analyze and understand the voting tendencies and registration composition of California’s 35th assembly district, and its constituents. 

### Organization

* `data/raw` - Contains raw and unrpocessed county election and registration info. 
* `data/processed` - The sanitized and procssed data, generated by the `Data Collection and Cleaning.ipynb` notebook.
* `Data Collection and Cleaning.ipynb` - A notebook that compiles, sanitizes, combines, and validates datasets for later use by other project notebooks.
* `Data Exploration.ipynb` - A notebook that generally explores information about AD35, its voters, and voting trends. 
* `Machine Learning.ipynb` - A notebook that creates a model trained on precinct registration information, to predict the proportion of the vote, a Democratic assembly candidate might win. 
* `getData.py` - A currently defunct script, that was going to be used to retrieve all of the data house in `data/raw/`
